---
layout: post
title:  "Bundling Packages"
date:   2017-09-27 10:05:00 +0800
categories: dev-environment-setup configuration node-js webpack pluralsight
---

Bundling is necessary in modern JS development for a few different reasons
- Puts packages brought in from external sources (mainly npm) into a browser-consumable format
- Can avoid using 'require' in Node, which is slow

A few different module formats
- IIFG, AMG - older
- CommonJS - used within Node
- UMD
- ES6 Modules

ES6 Modules are the likely path of development for future JS Modules

`import jQuery from 'jQuery'`

They are:
- standardised
- statically analysable
- easy to read/understand, offering named imports and and default exports

Lots of options for bundlers, including
- Browserify
- Webpack
- JSPM
- Rollup

**Browserify** - first major bundler, aimed at getting npm packages on the web. Plugin based, with a large ecosystem.

**Webpack** - can imort css, images etc. in same way as javascript. Is smarter - can inline code etc. Allows hot reloading.

**JSPM** - uses system.js, a universal module loader. It can also load modules at runtime. Uses rollup.

**Rollup** - big feature - tree-shaking. Will go through dependencies and remove unused stuff. Fast loading, good for library developments.

**Why pick webpack?**

- Can intelligently bundle and package more than just js
- allows bundle splitting - meaning no need for client to download all dependencies every time - can split across sections of app
- allows hot module reloading with built-in dev server
- tree shaking coming in Webpack 2

Raw bundled code is hard to read. Instead, produce **source maps** to debug - most modern browsers can use these to step through the original source files vs. what was executed. There are different options for what gets mapped etc.


*Write up of notes from Pluralsight: Building a JavaScript Development Environment*